We're going to be doing that and Canada which is something I've already kind of introduced you to a
little bit earlier in the classes just easy to kind of whip things together very quickly.
So I uploaded all my assets into a folder on camera and I'm going to go ahead and dive right in and
we're going to create our business card.
So Canada has some really great potential templates you can use.
I am a fan of using templates whatever it gives you a headstart on your design or layout.
I'm not afraid of taking a template and making it my own.
So I'm going to scroll through these and there's a lot of different ways to do an effective letterhead
it depends on how you're going to use the letterhead.
There's a lot of ways freelancers use letterhead.
Some of them put their proposals on them.
Some of them write personal thank you letters to clients.
You may think a letterhead might not be super important to you right now but it's really nice to have
one on hand especially when you do legal stuff and tax stuff.
Sometimes if you send an official letterhead to a business or to a government agency to do something
it looks a lot better and sometimes for certain official documents they require you to send letters
with some kind of official business letterhead.
So that's important to do.
Don't write these off.
Same thing with business cards.
I don't think they're too old school.
Not everything has to be digital.
And so go ahead and dive in here.
There's a lot of different letterheads like let's say this template.
This looks like it's got all sorts of stuff on it which might be interesting but it depends on the length
of your letter.
And you never know how much letter you're going to need to write.
So I like to focus more on space for the actual letter and a little a little bit less on all the graphics.
I'd like to have my logo and my name and contact information and you can have a little element in the
background but nothing may be quite as big as this one maybe something more along the lines of this
over here.
So I got to scroll through here and find one that I think will work.
I did find one I'm already starting to modify this a little bit.
What I like to do is make sure I can put a long letter there.
So if I can scroll this down and fit even more.
That would be lovely and it looks like I'll be able to say I'm going to fill that in with my own contact
information.
I'm just trying to think what would be a brand consistency because we're really talking about branding
here a little bit less about design.
How can we kind of brand this to make it look consistent and we can do our little tagline if we want
to take our tagline from our business card that we just created we could do the tag line somewhere in
there but the focus really is on your name and contact information and Web site.
This is not always a marketing piece.
This is sometimes more of an official business document piece and we want to keep it very very simple
very very clean.
So maybe less of that extra stuff that we've put on the business card.
So I'm going to continue to work on this layout a little bit the same way we did with the business cards
trying to find ways to incorporate that brand a little bit more in here.
Remember the colors that we developed a little bit earlier in our branding standards manual.
This is where those hex codes are really to come in handy if I want to bring that into any kind of online
editing program.
I can go ahead and pop or paste those hex codes in and we can go in and bring in those exact colors
she's always very helpful to get the right grades the right secondary colors
and this is where having multiple versions of your logo really comes in handy because there might be
a situation where a different color might work a little bit better than what we have as a default.
And she can always have those to test them out.
I'm a big fan of watermarks.
I think they look really good on letterheads and they don't interfere with the text too much.
So I'm just going to be creating that right now.
Of course you want to make sure you reduce the transparency or the color to a very light gray.
You don't want it to interfere with any text.
It'll ruin the whole efficiency of the letterhead.
So just kind of reduce it where you think would be a good level.
You can always do a test print in your home printer or an office printer and find out what you think
what level would look good and also doesn't have to be in the center could be on the left or right.
Get a little pop a name there.
That's entirely up to you.
So there we go.
A very very very very simple letterhead nothing that's going to win any design awards but I think it
is effective and definitely consistent with our brand.
We have a finished logo a branding manual brand assets a rough layout for an ad or business card letterhead.
We also have some several ideas for other items we can create.
We are ready for the next critical step into the Going freelance process.
This is probably one of the most important things we're going to cover.
And that's to craft your portfolio to land clients.